README.md, before:

## Hi there 👋

**Chief Information Officer (CIO)** at one of France’s leading universities, with international professional experience and active involvement in European higher education and research networks.

Passionate about amateur development and contributing to open-source projects—**wherever the code lives**—for the joy of creating, improving, and giving visibility to overlooked tools. I currently use **both GitHub and GitLab** to collaborate, test pipelines, and experiment with CI/CD workflows, but I remain platform-agnostic and open to evolving with the best tools for the job.

In my free time, I work on several **Python** projects, exploring:

- [**Nested dictionaries**](https://github.com/biface/ndt) and simple advanced data structures (graphs, trees, stacks, etc.),
- **Translation management**, inspired by Babel, with support for multiple translations and plural forms,
- **Upcoming projects** related to frameworks like Django.

This space is where I occasionally share **personal reflections** on software development, IT governance, and techincal experiences—always behind the comfort of a pseudonym. For deeper dives into these topics, I develop and maintain a **structured wiki on GitLab**, where you can find [detailed documentation](https://gitlab.com/biface/biface/-/wikis/home), best practices, and ongoing experiments.

<!--
**biface/biface** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->

Commit message:

Docs:Adding first explanations on pipelines.

README.md, after:

## Hi there 👋

**Chief Information Officer (CIO)** at one of France’s leading universities, with international professional experience and active involvement in European higher education and research networks.

Passionate about amateur development and contributing to open-source projects—**wherever the code lives**—for the joy of creating, improving, and giving visibility to overlooked tools. I currently use **both GitHub and GitLab** to collaborate, test pipelines, and experiment with CI/CD workflows, but I remain platform-agnostic and open to evolving with the best tools for the job.

In my free time, I work on several **Python** projects, exploring:

- [**Nested dictionaries**](https://github.com/biface/ndt) and simple advanced data structures (graphs, trees, stacks, etc.),
- **Translation management**, inspired by Babel, with support for multiple translations and plural forms,
- **Upcoming projects** related to frameworks like Django.

I also work on automation process and [pipelines](automation/pipelines.md) with explanations here on GitHub Action Workflows.

This space is where I occasionally share **personal reflections** on software development, IT governance, and techincal experiences—always behind the comfort of a pseudonym. For deeper dives into these topics, I develop and maintain a **structured wiki on GitLab**, where you can find [detailed documentation](https://gitlab.com/biface/biface/-/wikis/home), best practices, and ongoing experiments.

<!--
**biface/biface** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->
