automation/automation.md, before:

# Test Automation

## Overview

Test automation is the practice of using software tools to execute tests automatically, providing rapid feedback on
code quality without manual intervention. This automation is essential in modern development workflows, particularly
in CI/CD pipelines where code changes must be validated quickly and reliably.

## Test-Driven Development (TDD)

**Test-Driven Development** is a software development methodology that places automated testing at the very core of
the development process. Rather than writing tests after code, TDD inverts this relationship.

### The TDD Cycle: Red-Green-Refactor

TDD follows a simple but powerful three-step cycle:

1. **Red**: Write a failing test that defines desired functionality
2. **Green**: Write the minimum code necessary to make the test pass
3. **Refactor**: Improve the code while keeping tests green

```mermaid
flowchart LR
     P(["Write test<br>(Red)"]) --> n1(["Write Code<br>(Green)"]) --> n2([Repeat])
```

### Benefits of TDD in Automated Testing

**Better test coverage from the start:**

- Every line of production code is written to satisfy a test
- Coverage naturally reaches high levels (often 90%+)
- No forgotten edge cases or untested code paths

**Improved design:**

- Writing tests first forces you to think about interfaces and APIs
- Promotes loosely coupled, modular code
- Testable code is generally better code

**Living documentation:**

- Tests describe what the code should do
- New developers understand functionality through tests
- Examples of usage are always up-to-date

**Confidence in refactoring:**

- Comprehensive test suite catches regressions immediately
- Safe to improve code structure without breaking functionality
- Technical debt can be addressed continuously

**Faster debugging:**

- Failures are caught at the moment code is written
- No debugging sessions searching for when a bug was introduced
- Clear feedback loop: test fails → fix code → test passes

### TDD and Automation

TDD and test automation are natural partners:

- **TDD creates the tests** that automation runs continuously
- **Automation provides instant feedback** required by the TDD cycle
- **CI/CD pipelines** execute TDD-written tests on every commit
- **Fast test execution** (unit tests in seconds) enables rapid iteration

## Focus on Unit and Integration Tests

### Unit Tests: The Foundation

**Unit tests** are the cornerstone of any automated testing strategy. They:

- Test individual components (functions, methods, classes) in isolation
- Execute in milliseconds, providing immediate feedback
- Require no external dependencies (databases, APIs, file systems)
- Are easy to write, maintain, and debug
- Achieve high code coverage efficiently

**Benefits in automation:**

- **Fast execution**: Thousands of unit tests can run in seconds
- **Precise failure location**: Failures pinpoint exactly which component broke
- **Parallelization**: Can run simultaneously across multiple environments
- **Early detection**: Catch bugs at the component level before integration

### Integration Tests: Component Interactions

**Integration tests** (also called **component tests**) verify that multiple components work together correctly. They:

- Test interactions between modules, classes, or services
- Validate data flow across component boundaries
- May involve limited external dependencies (in-memory databases, mock services)
- Execute slower than unit tests but faster than end-to-end tests

**Benefits in automation:**

- **Interface validation**: Ensure components communicate correctly
- **Contract verification**: Confirm APIs and interfaces work as expected
- **Regression prevention**: Detect breaking changes in component interactions
- **Realistic scenarios**: Test with more realistic data flows than unit tests

### The Automated Testing Workflow

```text
Code Change
    ↓
Commit & Push
    ↓
CI Pipeline Triggered
    ↓
1. Unit Tests (seconds) ────→ Immediate feedback
    ↓
2. Integration Tests (minutes) ────→ Component validation
    ↓
3. Code Coverage Report ────→ Quality metrics
    ↓
Success/Failure Notification
```

## Python Testing with Tox and Pytest

### Why Pytest?

**Pytest** is the industry-standard testing framework for Python, offering:

- **Simple syntax**: Write tests with plain `assert` statements
- **Powerful features**: Fixtures, parametrization, plugins
- **Excellent reporting**: Clear, actionable failure messages
- **Rich ecosystem**: Thousands of plugins (pytest-cov, pytest-mock, pytest-asyncio)

### Why Tox?

**Tox** is a test automation and environment management tool that:

- **Creates isolated environments** : Each test run is independent
- **Tests across Python versions** : Verify compatibility (3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12)
- **Standardizes workflows** : Same commands work locally and in CI/CD
- **Manages dependencies** : Ensures reproducible test environments

**Key advantages:**

- Developers test in exactly the same environment as CI/CD
- One command (`tox`) runs all tests and checks
- Environment isolation prevents "works on my machine" issues
- Easy integration with GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins

### The Tox + Pytest Combination

Together, Tox and Pytest provide a complete testing solution:

```bash
# Local development
tox -e py312          # Test on Python 3.12
tox -e pre-push       # Full workflow before pushing

# CI/CD pipeline
tox -e ci-tests       # Run tests with coverage
tox -e ci-quality     # Run quality checks
```

This combination ensures:

1. **Unit tests** run fast with pytest
2. **Integration tests** run in isolated tox environments
3. **Coverage reports** track test completeness
4. **Multiple Python versions** tested automatically
5. **Local and remote consistency** guaranteed

---

## Detailed Configuration

You will find one of the [Tox configuration files](../shared/tox_ini.txt) that I use in most of my projects or
that I am currently standardizing across my current projects. This configuration file is accompanied by a detailed
explanation in [French](python/tox.fr.md) and [English](python/tox.en.md) where the following topics are covered:

- Introduction to Tox and its benefits
- Detailed configuration of all environments
- Practical usage examples
- Tool configuration (flake8, isort, mypy)

Commit message:

Docs:As I am switching to uv virtual environment, I am preparing elements... and organizing my project.

automation/automation.md, after:

# Test Automation

## Overview

Test automation is the practice of using software tools to execute tests automatically, providing rapid feedback on
code quality without manual intervention. This automation is essential in modern development workflows, particularly
in CI/CD pipelines where code changes must be validated quickly and reliably.

## Test-Driven Development (TDD)

**Test-Driven Development** is a software development methodology that places automated testing at the very core of
the development process. Rather than writing tests after code, TDD inverts this relationship.

### The TDD Cycle: Red-Green-Refactor

TDD follows a simple but powerful three-step cycle:

1. **Red**: Write a failing test that defines desired functionality
2. **Green**: Write the minimum code necessary to make the test pass
3. **Refactor**: Improve the code while keeping tests green

```mermaid
flowchart LR
     P(["Write test<br>(Red)"]) --> n1(["Write Code<br>(Green)"]) --> n2([Repeat])
```

### Benefits of TDD in Automated Testing

**Better test coverage from the start:**

- Every line of production code is written to satisfy a test
- Coverage naturally reaches high levels (often 90%+)
- No forgotten edge cases or untested code paths

**Improved design:**

- Writing tests first forces you to think about interfaces and APIs
- Promotes loosely coupled, modular code
- Testable code is generally better code

**Living documentation:**

- Tests describe what the code should do
- New developers understand functionality through tests
- Examples of usage are always up-to-date

**Confidence in refactoring:**

- Comprehensive test suite catches regressions immediately
- Safe to improve code structure without breaking functionality
- Technical debt can be addressed continuously

**Faster debugging:**

- Failures are caught at the moment code is written
- No debugging sessions searching for when a bug was introduced
- Clear feedback loop: test fails → fix code → test passes

### TDD and Automation

TDD and test automation are natural partners:

- **TDD creates the tests** that automation runs continuously
- **Automation provides instant feedback** required by the TDD cycle
- **CI/CD pipelines** execute TDD-written tests on every commit
- **Fast test execution** (unit tests in seconds) enables rapid iteration

## Focus on Unit and Integration Tests

### Unit Tests: The Foundation

**Unit tests** are the cornerstone of any automated testing strategy. They:

- Test individual components (functions, methods, classes) in isolation
- Execute in milliseconds, providing immediate feedback
- Require no external dependencies (databases, APIs, file systems)
- Are easy to write, maintain, and debug
- Achieve high code coverage efficiently

**Benefits in automation:**

- **Fast execution**: Thousands of unit tests can run in seconds
- **Precise failure location**: Failures pinpoint exactly which component broke
- **Parallelization**: Can run simultaneously across multiple environments
- **Early detection**: Catch bugs at the component level before integration

### Integration Tests: Component Interactions

**Integration tests** (also called **component tests**) verify that multiple components work together correctly. They:

- Test interactions between modules, classes, or services
- Validate data flow across component boundaries
- May involve limited external dependencies (in-memory databases, mock services)
- Execute slower than unit tests but faster than end-to-end tests

**Benefits in automation:**

- **Interface validation**: Ensure components communicate correctly
- **Contract verification**: Confirm APIs and interfaces work as expected
- **Regression prevention**: Detect breaking changes in component interactions
- **Realistic scenarios**: Test with more realistic data flows than unit tests

### The Automated Testing Workflow

```text
Code Change
    ↓
Commit & Push
    ↓
CI Pipeline Triggered
    ↓
1. Unit Tests (seconds) ────→ Immediate feedback
    ↓
2. Integration Tests (minutes) ────→ Component validation
    ↓
3. Code Coverage Report ────→ Quality metrics
    ↓
Success/Failure Notification
```

## Python Testing with Tox and Pytest

### Why Pytest?

**Pytest** is the industry-standard testing framework for Python, offering:

- **Simple syntax**: Write tests with plain `assert` statements
- **Powerful features**: Fixtures, parametrization, plugins
- **Excellent reporting**: Clear, actionable failure messages
- **Rich ecosystem**: Thousands of plugins (pytest-cov, pytest-mock, pytest-asyncio)

### Why Tox?

**Tox** is a test automation and environment management tool that:

- **Creates isolated environments** : Each test run is independent
- **Tests across Python versions** : Verify compatibility (3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12)
- **Standardizes workflows** : Same commands work locally and in CI/CD
- **Manages dependencies** : Ensures reproducible test environments

**Key advantages:**

- Developers test in exactly the same environment as CI/CD
- One command (`tox`) runs all tests and checks
- Environment isolation prevents "works on my machine" issues
- Easy integration with GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins

### The Tox + Pytest Combination

Together, Tox and Pytest provide a complete testing solution:

```bash
# Local development
tox -e py312          # Test on Python 3.12
tox -e pre-push       # Full workflow before pushing

# CI/CD pipeline
tox -e ci-tests       # Run tests with coverage
tox -e ci-quality     # Run quality checks
```

This combination ensures:

1. **Unit tests** run fast with pytest
2. **Integration tests** run in isolated tox environments
3. **Coverage reports** track test completeness
4. **Multiple Python versions** tested automatically
5. **Local and remote consistency** guaranteed

---

## Detailed Configuration

While I am writing about automation with Python, I am switching to Astral's UV virtual environment, which promises to
be more powerful, faster, and allow for more structured package management within a project. I don't have enough
mastery of it yet to discuss it here, but I'll share with you the changes I'm introducing in test automation and other
processing with tox and Python.  

You will find one of the [Tox configuration files](../shared/tox_ini.txt) that I use in most of my projects or
that I am currently standardizing across my current projects. This configuration file is accompanied by a detailed
explanation in [French](tests/python/tox.fr.md) and [English](tests/python/tox.en.md) where the following topics are covered:

- Introduction to Tox and its benefits
- Detailed configuration of all environments
- Practical usage examples
- Tool configuration (flake8, isort, mypy)
